Welcome to this section on Digital Assets.
To develop this in future lessons,
we'll start to work a lot with digital assets.
Before getting started, we wanted to help define what these actually are,
and why they're important to the blockchain.
Understanding how digital assets work on the blockchain will allow you to create
an entirely new set of applications whose scope goes far beyond simple transactions.
From movies and music,
to business and legal documentation,
there's a lot to get excited about in this space.
With that in mind, let's look a bit more into Digital Asset.
First, a digital asset can be a lot of things.
But overall, we consider it to be
both digitally stored content or an online account owned by an individual.
These are valuable because it allows us to take things like books, songs,
or videos and access them online,
rather than needing to create them physically.
This is something most of us deal with every day,
so it's not too surprising.
Something I was interested by,
is that accounts are actually considered digital assets too.
In this case, something like a bank account,
a subscription, or a membership could be considered a digital asset.
So, digital assets are common,
but what's not is common,
is understanding exactly what they are,
and how we can work with them programmatically.
You'll probably recognize files like GIF, JPEG, and MP3.
There's many other types of digital assets ranging across topics shown here,
like images, video, 3D files, and many more.
To help us transmit these files online,
they're usually compressed and optimized.
A compression algorithm is any algorithm made
specifically to achieve a very fast transmission rate,
or a small amount of storage space.
These algorithms are used on digital assets to help us store,
send, and load assets as we work with them.
But, even with these compression algorithms,
the blockchain isn't really the best place to store these files.
While it's possible, it can be pretty slow and expensive because as we've seen,
the blockchain as a database suffers from issues with the cost and speed of storage.
What the blockchain can do very well,
is help improve the way we manage the ownership of these digital assets.
This is something that has been a struggle in the past for many industries,
and is where the blockchain really shines.
Even with licensing and copyrights,
Digital assets traditionally have issues with theft,
payments, and royalties associated with the ownership of digital rights.
The blockchain handles this issue in the same way it handles transactions.
The difference is, instead of saying,
"Who owns this transaction?"
we're asking, "Who owns this asset?"
It's a simple concept and theory,
but extremely helpful in practice.
Coming up, we'll add on a few new ideas to what you already know,
to help get you set up to manage the ownership of
digital assets using your own private blockchain.
So, that's it. We looked at what a digital asset is,
went over a few examples,
and have a basic idea of how digital assets were on the blockchain.
Coming up, we'll start our journey into
digital assets by reviewing the basics of encoding,
decoding, and starting to work with them for ourselves.